---
title: Setup environment
date: 2024-04-20 10:00:00 -0300
---

The kickoff to send kernel contributions is to create a controllable environment. We follow the [FLUSP tutorials](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/) to create this and make a first attempt to change the Linux kernel.

## `Libvirt`

The [first tutorial](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/qemu-libvirt-setup/) was to set up a virtual machine (VM) with `libvirt`.

Following the tutorial steps was simple. We get the Debian ARM image and, with the scripts provided, create and launch the VM. Setup ssh was similar to ssh in a remote host.

All the problems were with permissions. We solved it in two ways: the first was to create a group with my user and the `libvirt-qemu` user and give the workshop folder to this new group. The second way was changing the default `libvirt` user to my user, that is an easy solution and avoids sudo permission to the lib.

## Build Linux kernel

The [second tutorial](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/build-linux-for-arm/) was only to build the kernel without change.

Following the tutorial, we cloned the IIO subsystem tree, built it and checked if our VM was using this new kernel.

The first problem was with dependencies. I use Manjaro, which is based on Arch, so, in general, was only install a package with the same name as the missing command.

The hardest challenge in this tutorial was where to run each command. In some command blocks in the tutorial, there is missing the change directory command.

## Build modules

The [last tutorial](https://flusp.ime.usp.br/kernel/modules-intro/) was finally modifying the Linux kernel by adding a simple module.

Despite the same problem of changing the directory command, this tutorial requires attention to all files that need to be changed.

After checking that everything was ok, it was only waiting until the build ended. To verify that everything was right, we launched the VM, enabled the new module and used example scripts to test it. Everything went well.

---

During the break week, I redid all three tutorials, because the folder schema was a mess to me. After this, where run each command was easy to recognize.
