---
title: Kworkflow
date: 2024-06-19 19:00:00 -0300
---

# DRM

After creating the pull request (PR) and receiving the first feedback on the code, a long iteration process began between us, Siqueira, and Davi. Various code styling details needed to be fixed, and documentation had to be created. The tests were somewhat challenging during development but were completed.

Currently, this code has already been merged into the unstable branch, and the PR has been closed.

The other issue we chose to work on was also in the DRM subsystem since we were already familiar with the files that needed to be changed. This [issue #1097](https://github.com/kworkflow/kworkflow/issues/1097) involves modifying the `--modes` flag of the `kw drm` command to display the current screen resolution and refresh rate.

The biggest challenge with this issue was dealing with the fact that the data on the current resolution and refresh rate is only available in kernel files, which requires using `sudo` to produce the desired result.

Our solution considers the case where the user runs the command with `sudo` and when they do not. In each case, the output is based on the information that can be displayed. However, Siqueira was not very satisfied with this solution and said it was not the expected outcome. We responded by explaining the issue of accessing the kernel file, but he has not yet seen this response, and we are waiting to determine the best solution for this issue.

# Pomodoro

After finishing these DRM issues, there was little time left, and I preferred to accompany Roberto in implementing the Pomodoro function in Kworkflow and understanding how he was addressing the watch issue and managing the Pomodoro clock breaks.
